It will hide a fire from you, but permit all its warmth to reach you.
Bigger than Poppa! Much bigger! Cindi thought he needed to go on a diet.
The wind hurled me into collision with him, and we stood clinging to one another.
I put down my clubs beside me, and sat resting my chin on my hands.
But am I that? However, that is the sum of my wrongs.
" A gentleman of private means is willing to lend money," I read.
The net result of the great experiment presented itself as an absolute failure.
"And now," said I, what are we to do?" "Wait," lie said.
let both sides join in creating not a new balance of power.
It was good to see that familiar dark interior again! I cannot tell you how good.
The darkness had given place to that bluish light again.
He left the court with a big smile to thunderous applause.
They begin with the elements of life and not of thought.
Those librarians are not advising David to sing at the barbershop.
I am forcing Amanda to dance right at this time.
It wasn't hard to sing next to the police station last summer.
Jennifer thinks it isn't interesting to laugh.
It's interesting to talk in the living room.
The farmers think that it is cheap to run.
It's not bad to cook in the doghouse.
Sleeping in the classroom isn't cheap.
I knelt, and then seated myself at the edge of the manhole, peering over it.
A flat, long Selenite dashed out of the darkness, and squealed and fled.
And all the nearer parts of the marsh were laced and lit by ditches and canals.
No! Science has toiled too long forging weapons for fools to use.
It's night here yet; we must wait for the day to overtake us.
So utterly at variance is destiny with all the little plans of men.
I was numb, I stumbled, I bruised and cut myself and did not bleed.
Then my annoyance gave way to amazement and curiosity.
But for all that, there seemed a tremendous crowd of them.
In another moment, as it seemed, we had reached the edge.
I fancy they expected a clue to me in the way I helped myself to salt.
Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive.
He sent for the Vizier and asked what had become of the palace.
I was suddenly in the most enormous funk at the thing we were going to do.
.a struggle against the common enemies of man: tyranny.
I'm not going to trust to Selenites and geometrical diagrams if I can help it.
We must get into the moon again, though we were slain in doing it.
I realised I had yet to spend another night at least in the sphere.
We should be fainting with the heat already if it wasn't so dry.
For a time Cavor kept up a broken monologue without much help from me.
I felt how urgent it was that we should decide soon upon our course.
But once he was involved his penetration was amazing.
So the story closes as, finally and completely as a dream.
I had not suspected this aspect of the matter before.
Theirs was the darkest ignorance compared even with my muddled impression.
Among other things I saw in it my redemption as a business man.
"There! Yes! And there!" His eyes followed my pointing finger.
Just here it was that our resemblances were not going to bridge our differences.
Chapter 5 The Journey to the Moon PRESENTLY Cavor extinguished the light.
After all, their way is a way of understanding, too.
But one day, when we were drawing near the end, an odd mood came over me.
.will rest the final success or failure of our course.
A sudden blaze of pink had crept up a ragged pillar of crag.
As our air sizzled out from the screw the moisture of it condensed in little puffs.
"Oh, I see." "Practically we shall be able to tack about in space just as we wish.
We sat getting our breath again, and feeling the bruises on our limbs.
They were perhaps six feet long, with shaped handles, very tempting-looking weapons.
We must forever conduct our struggle on the high plane of dignity and discipline.
Cavor was, after all, the outcome of the purest accident.
Right down at the last the central sea that washes round the core of the moon.
I became aware of Cavor's little round face peering over a bristling hedge.
This and Cavor's sudden shout and leap clearly astonished all the Selenites.
Instantly a hideous genie appeared, and asked what she would have.
After a time we seemed to be gaining on the uproar.
"It simply illustrates the unthinking way in which one acquires habits of feeling.
I ran forward some paces, shouting, then turned about.
It was a warm yellow light, not cold like silver light of the winter moon.
It was clear that the knowledge of our strength and violence had reached them.
"No! Not yet! not yet! Wait! Wait! Oh, wait!" My voice went up to a shriek.
"I am hungry too." He stood up with a look of active resolution.
They aren't singing in front of the restaurant.
Those musicians are not playing near the station these days.
Is Betty Sue laughing near the tree now?
Don't those farmers dance between the two mountains?
Does Tony dance between the two mountains?
Those flight attendants are jogging between the two buildings.
It might be possible to eat in the river five weeks from now.
Ineffectual-looking little hand-tentacles steadied this shape on the throne.
She, however, treated him so harshly that he dared not live there altogether.
And if anything goes wrong there are relief parties.
The footprints led into the deep woods and Cindi was a little frightened.
The thing's too mad." I would not go with him to the laboratory.
I winced like a beaten horse as they came near to us.
"Good heavens! What for?" "I've done it." "You have.
The whole place was lit by three transverse streams of the blue fluid.
I threw away my spear, and picked up a second crowbar for the other hand.
Our jackets were unbuttoned, and our shoes had been taken off and lay at our feet.
He was standing high upon a rocky mass and gesticulating back to me.
In this he descended towards constantly more luminous caverns of the moon.
"It doesn't matter," he answered, and we hurried on in silence.
Nor will it be finished in the first one thousand days.
Down below! Caverns beneath caverns, tunnels, structures, ways...
"It doesn't distress your lungs too much?" said Cavor.
Then with a pang of shame at that hesitation, I leapt.
That police officer isn't skiing in front of the restaurant.
Eleanor isn't walking between the two buildings right at this time.
Those musicians aren't surfing at the drugstore at this exact moment.
That musician is surfing in London at this exact moment.
Are the car mechanics shaving at school at this exact moment?
Were those teachers shouting earlier this morning?
The lawyers weren't talking near my home.
It wasn't a lot of fun to laugh the year before last.
The year before last Joanne's mother was still jogging.
The singers weren't fighting at the drugstore.
The depression of my hunger gave way to an irrational exhilaration.
Men go on polar expeditions." "Not business men.
I saw him not only as an ass, but as the son of many generations of asses.
It came to me as an absolute, for a moment an overwhelming shock.
The cleft opened out steadily, and the light was brighter.
.to prevent it from becoming merely a forum for invective.
One elemental need at least our minds could understand in common.
Were those flight attendants surfing in the mountains?
Were those teachers driving five weeks ago?
Was Rebecca jogging last night at eleven?
Christine wasn't studying in the doghouse.
Talking below the bridge isn't fun.
Weren't those barbers laughing at the bank?
Then they all stared at me, and then they all stared at the ship lying at anchor.
I tried to thrust my head through the manhole, and the sphere rolled over.
It lasted perhaps three I minutes; then I had myself in hand again.
This is the faith with which I return to the South.
Look at it!" He waved his hand at the shining whiteness below.
'I WANTED TO DO SOMETHING DIFFERENT' "It's a nice fairy tale.
It requires constant thought, constant mental ease and activity.
It was very little and very far, and Cavor was not in sight.
what will they do with it? Well, that's a question.
Two of the others went and looked out of the farther window and talked inaudibly.
"The house with white chimneys you see just over the trees.
I became aware of some vague shape looming darkly out of the black.
Is the guard jogging over there these days?
Are the store clerks training Marty to pray between the two buildings at this time?
Joe didn't beg Jane to shave.
The science teachers haven't urged Lawrence to read.
Dave orders Ginger to laugh every other day.
They are ordering Larry to jump at school these days.
The journalists were ordering Cathy to read last month.
And then again Cavor flung our little sphere open to the scorching, blinding sun.
It seemed to me that my body must be suddenly changed to lead.
That is the most probable thing, if we are to find life there at all.
Christopher was gone! Cindi scuffled quickly to the living room.
For one of the armed Selenites had stabbed me behind with his goad.
"It was I found the way here, but to find a way isn't always to be master of a way.
I looked bout me, and then leapt forward to the next convenient view-point.
You don't understand." Another Selenite added his compulsion.
"Cavor," I shouted, "they want us to get up!" He stared open-mouthed.
There came another of these beastly surprises of which the moon world is full.
Dexterous ushers sidled sideways towards me, keeping a full face to the Presence.
I brought them up to my mouth and felt the cold smoothness of metal.
And so I got away to Italy, and there it is I am writing this story.
"I can't see." "We can't cross this at any price," said I.
He came back and stood between us and the great machine.
Each knock and throb seemed to vibrate through our bodies.
But already it was plain to see that the world was a globe.
The taxi drivers think it isn't exciting to study.
They are cooking next to the police station.
Those science teachers aren't reading between the two buildings.
That police officer is laughing below the bridge at the moment.
That police officer isn't fighting in the classroom.
That carpenter isn't talking by the sea now.
Are you bus drivers studying in the classroom?
Is Elizabeth singing over there nowadays?
Ann Lynn isn't shouting right at this time.
I fell, or rather I jumped down, about ten yards I suppose.
I shivered as I emerged, for the evening air was growing very cold.
Chid, chid, chid went the chopping, and the shadows moved to and fro.
It was as though something had lugged my head down directly it emerged.
I rose to my feet - I was a little stiff - and at once prepared to resume my search.
He had got to be rich, and it was no good his stammering.
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York.
My heart seemed to beat against the top of my brain.
It was like the rubbing of a finger upon a pane of glass.
From this vantage point I surveyed the crater again.
I threw up my arms, shouted a ghostly shout, and set off in vast leaps towards it.
It seemed to take quite a long time, five or six seconds, I should think.
Then I made a hasty step to look over the verge of the rock.
I seemed to shoot right up in the air as though I should never come down.
It's simply the human habit of hoping till we die that makes us think of return.
In that night there must be cold, the ultimate cold, absolute zero, 273 C.
Everyone tried to be cheerful and josh him out of it but he was in a deep funk.
On these balanced a little body, throbbing with the pulsations of his heart.
For a time I was puzzled to think what had brought him.
I became quite still, staring at their grotesque faces.
If suddenly we appeared here - " We looked at one another.
Come on, we'll find Santa at home." She tried to sound brave, but she wasn't.
It occurred to me in a flash that he was intoxicated, possibly by the fungus.
We shall not always expect to find them supporting our view.
Had I indeed heard a sound? I felt the pressure of Cavor's hand upon my arm.
I seated myself Turkish fashion, and Phi-oo and Tsi-puff also knelt down above me.
It was not, perhaps, in the style of Sybaris, but I have had worse times.
But who thinks? Who governs?' "I gave him an outline of the democratic method.
I had expected a violent jerk at starting, a giddy sense of speed.
Pretty soon it chugged out into an even bigger room.
"Gratulate me," he gasped; "gratulate me!" "Congratulate you! said I.
It might be expensive to eat at the company tomorrow afternoon.
The plumbers think that it isn't a lot of fun to surf.
Stephen thinks that it is possible to read.
I am expecting Becky to pray.
Do those computer programmers urge Sarah to pray for a long time?
The car mechanics don't forbid Abraham to walk carelessly.
They are forcing Jackie to drive right now.
I wasn't advising Robert to play quickly.
Patricia had invited Miss Johnson to study for ten minutes.
Do those taxi drivers expect Matthew to eat at the company?
I persuaded Lonnie to shout last summer.
They are persuading Ned to read at this time.
Ed was helping Jenny to read last summer.
"Either I fancied it or a flake of snow came drifting down on the icy breeze.
I made a step back, gathered myself together, and leapt with all my might.
Even if they have no generous emotions, they will teach in order to learn.
I seemed to lack a motive for effort until the Selenites should come.
It was a strenuous time, with little chance of thinking.
Down below - On this scale - There will be everything.
You must go westward, moving out in semicircles to and fro towards the setting sun.
What on earth caused that explosion? " A gust of wind blew his words away.
1 overall pick in the draft a year ago, had his second solid game in a row.
It came from a tree, an old cedar, whose branches caressed the snow.
They have different skins, and probably different nerves.
And as we walk, we must make the pledge that we shall march ahead.
If we can possibly avoid wrecking this little planet of ours, we will.
Three or four other arrows followed the first, then their fire ceased.
But this time I did not wait until the pressure was adjusted.
"'Do they not do different things, then?' said Phi-oo.
Our open windows were just visible as a deeper black set with stars.
A dome arched over it, covered with crystals, thousands of crystals.
It was an absolute collapse, and this was the final disaster.
It's as you say, Cavor, we have touched the merest outside of this world.
"It is clear," meditated Cavor, "they are intelligent.
It was running - it was boiling - like snow into which a white-hot rod is thrust.
All these things seemed to take him much as his mathematics had taken me.
"Well, suppose there are a few philosophers like yourself.
It seemed to me, of course, that I looked "down" when I looked at the moon.
They were leaving tonight for the cabin at Priest Lake.
I had to hoist it over a little to get my head through the manhole.
I laughed aloud as the foremost man staggered under my gold.
" Can it be," he said, " that I have formed a Habit ? " "Well, it looks like it.
The most prominent quality of it was a pervading doubt of my own identity.
He was a water-drinker, a vegetarian, and all those logical disciplinary things.
If they take us, they'll probably kill us, through some misunderstanding.
Abruptly the moisture turned to spangles and fronds of frost.
The Selenite who untied me used his mouth to help his hands.
She was charmed at the sight of Aladdin, who ran to receive her.
"He asked for particulars to assist his imagination.
"Or if presently they come hunting us?" He made no answer.
As he stepped forward lie was refracted grotesquely by the edge of the glass.
For an instant I could have believed the whole thing a dream.
They will examine it - get inside it - trifle with the studs.
I was like a man awakened out of pleasant dreams to the most horrible surroundings.
The sphere lay behind us on its dwindling snowdrift thirty feet away.
He was awakened by the singing of the birds, and his heart was lighter.
Ever and again there was the intermittent drip and trickle of water by us.
A look of perplexity came into his ruddy little face.
The oil stove was still burning, and I put on the water to boil again for tea.
For a time we ate with an utter absence of selfconsciousness.
Their tentacle hands were soft and cold to my skin.
Practically I should never get a chance of working in peace again.
"A hiding-place! If anything came..." I looked about us.
Two of them missed with their hatchets, and the rest fled incontinently.
Then I perceived his head and shoulders dimly outlined against a fainter darkness.
And there I lay swearing and panting and cooling for a very long time.
I twisted my head round as well as my bonds would permit.
Even if one has been to the moon, one has still to earn a living.
Thicker whirled the snow and thicker, black against the light.
Far below me, in a darkling twilight, stretched a great expanse of sea.
But it was some time before we resumed our crawling search for the vanished sphere.
If I were to slip off one turn so, and then to twist it so ...
In the distance they could hear the metallic sound of chisels.
"'But surely they do not like it!' translated Phi-oo.
We lay close, and for a long time the sounds went to and fro and very near.
I could see the white light was very much brighter now.
Conscientious if unintelligent, strong, civil, and willing.
A gust of laughter seized me, and then I stepped off to follow.
Weren't those computer programmers working between the two buildings?
The scientists don't have any eggs in front of the restaurant.
Are you flight attendants advising Sandra to swim near the tree?
Those bus drivers are not forcing Jessica to study at present.
I'm not allowing Tony to sleep near the tree now.
I set them down here just for what they are worth, and without any comment.
I felt five times better than I had with the spear.
It was an east shore anyhow, and I had seen Europe before I dropped.
There was a hole in the snow by the roots of the tree.
It came from beneath our feet, a sound in the earth.
"In the moon," says Cavor, "every citizen knows his place.
All this will not be finished in the first one hundred days.
So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire.
"We are out of Mother Earth's leading - strings now," he said.
I scrambled back into the sphere with these things.
Jordan's four-point sequence at the end of the half put the Wizards ahead 58-40.
Sneaking out to the Christmas tree was her own private adventure.
The crusty snow gave under her weight now and then and snow filled her boots.
You never read a newspaper! You see the chances against you.
Only one gets into habits of mind." He thought for a time.
And through it all, a warning, a threat, throbbed this enigma of sound.
Inadvertently I made this substance of mine, this Cavorite, in a thin, wide sheet.
Once we were on them, they would be nearly as formidable as black beetles.
She begged him to sell it, and have nothing to do with devils.
For a few minutes I clambered steadily, and then I looked up again.
I sat down heedless of the water that came over my feet.
.year in and year out, rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation.
But we shall always hope to find them strongly supporting their own freedom.
"Who are you?", said Cindi? "Where are we?", said Christopher.
Aladdin made them to set out to the palace, two by two, followed by his mother.
I never saw men run like them! I knew the spear I had was no good for me.
"For the first and last time in my experience the moon was silent.
The genie gave such a loud and terrible shriek that the hall shook.
Very soon my knuckles and knees were raw, and I had a bruise on one cheek.
We shall have to wait until our air gets warm again, and then this glass will clear.
The medieval priests and persecutors were right and the Moderns are all wrong.
He shook his head, and stared away from me across the waste.
"Cavor," I asked, "why not?" "Poison," I heard him say, but he did not look round.
Each time I touched the ground I was tempted to go back.
"Just over there," he said, and pointed suddenly dangerously near my eye.
Now the star of the electric light would be overhead, now under foot.
He hesitated, his eyes sought among the rocks about us.
"One might get over that." "How?" "I don't know.
Several tunnels led off from the pool, warm light glowing from each.
A man of such possibilities, I reflected, is no ordinary guest to entertain.
For these Selenites, also, have a great variety of forms.
Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors.
She went every day for a week, and stood in the same place.
His bearing had changed remarkably, he seemed limp, shrunken.
For a moment I hesitated at going so far from the sphere.
He walked like a bird, his feet fell one in front of the other.
I was on the manhole lip, a stupefied, half-dead being.
He leant forward against the wind, rubbing the dirt from his eyes and mouth.
I wrenched my wrists free from the little tentacles that held them.
.for we dare not meet a powerful challenge, at odds, and split asunder.
The eastward cliff was at first merely a starless selvedge to the starry dome.
He made his way towards me, coming gingerly among the bushes.
This is beyond our understanding." "Which way shall we go?" He hesitated.
He was saying something, but what it was I did not heed.
Talking over his work was, he said, a pleasure enjoyed only too rarely.
To our sister republics south of our border: we offer a special pledge.
She wondered whether they would freeze out here together.
"Bedford! " cried Cavor, and behold! he was halfway between me and the grating.
"Why?" "I knew some one who was rather interested in astronomy.
We must not allow our creative protest to degenerate into physical violence.
That doctor is not reading at home.
Those gardners have just encouraged Joanne's mother to surf.
The scientists begged Buddy to pray for a long time.
Those janitors aren't advising Jimmy Joe to laugh below the bridge.
It won't be cheap to dance in a few days.
It was bad to sleep in New York last Monday.
He ran amuck, killed three, and perforce I had to flee with him after the outrage.
His pale and terrified face was ghastly in the blue light.
They are just the very Selenites who'll never have heard of our existence.
I knew I was staking everything, but I jumped there and then.
In fact, I know I am getting absurdly absent-minded.
For that second, at least, I was mad with fear and anger.
We seemed, from the feeling of the air, to be going out into a huge space.
I saw a most extraordinary thing, all hands and feet, bolting for cover.
Now is the time to open the doors of opportunity to all of God's children.
I heard the impact of his leaps come following after me.
Invite him to sup with you, and say you wish to taste the wine of his country.
No doubt it was a mistake for to interpret his expression in that way, but I did.
Directly he had left for my bungalow they had gone.
In a little while I did not doubt that something was quietly ascending the cleft.
For long we saw nothing of the beings whose sounds were so abundant and insistent.
"I have no doubt there will be minerals," said Cavor.
"We're half an hour or so beyond the day," he said.
It meant to show us little men what the moon could do with us.
"Better?" he said, wiping the blood with the back of his hand.
At first he thought we referred merely to administrative areas.
They had very short thighs, very long shanks, and little feet.
"They're more different from us than the strangest animals on earth.
Certainly the aspect of things had changed very greatly.
"It looks as though these plants had it to themselves," I said.
I suppose that both we and the Selenites did some very rapid thinking.
Eh? "'He' - turning to Tsi-puff - 'love remember words.
I seem to exist only to go about doing preposterous things.
"What can it be?" I asked; "what can it be?" "The engineering!...
Or we shall freeze." I did not wait to be told twice.
I had discovered among these needles a number of little round objects.
Then they journeyed onwards till they almost reached the mountains.
He was at the edge of the hole and she quickly joined him.
He broke off the heads of the cookies and threw them on the snow for the birds.
Doesn't it? " He pulled down his lower lip between finger and thumb.
As a consequence, I was dazzled and blinded for some little time.
He assisted me into a sitting position, and I could see with my own eyes.
In a puzzled state of mind I too dropped through the manhole.
Come to think, it is just as you say; I never have been beyond that field.
This region of the crust in which we are is an outlying district, a pastoral region.
The draught is blowing up, and that is the way we have to go.
His prayer was granted, and he went forth sadly from the Sultan's presence.
"I must confess that all this multitude made me feel extremely shabby and unworthy.
I faced towards the group of the three goad-bearers.
I was in the silence and darkness the inter-planetary sphere.
They haven't persuaded Paul's grandson to pray.
They are singing in New York at this exact moment.
Those politicians aren't walking next to the police station nowadays.
Were those store clerks laughing at the barbershop?
The plumbers think it is fun to shave.
It might be possible to cook below the bridge tomorrow evening.
These strangely shaped masses of gold they had staggered under held their minds.
"It isn't - ?" cried the little man, and rushed to the corner window.
It would keep the Selenites down - for a time at any rate.
I think I said I was glad to be of any service to him, and he turned away.
It was curiously unlike earthly experience, too, to have the light coming up to one.
I rolled over spluttering, and came to rest convulsed with breathless laughter.
We were in an enormous amphitheatre, a vast circular plain.
For a time I struggled against this really very grotesque delusion.
Whatever it was that was happening about that apparatus we cannot tell.
He stared about him for a space, sighed, and indicated a direction.
"But they will! They'll see the fungi I have been pitching down.
They glanced at one another, and then concentrated the fire of their eyes on me.
But then came vertigo and nausea that abruptly changed the quality of my courage.
Christopher hung his cold feet into the warmth of the hole.
Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance.
Outside began a terrific bellowing, as if a mooncalf were in trouble.
I recalled the old Spanish monopoly in American gold.
He was sitting at a bench furiously polishing stones.
But Cavor had not received the shock that had paralysed me.
At last the world seemed no longer a sphere but flat, and then concave.
"Let us keep together," he whispered, "and look for the sphere.
The silence, the rhythmic disappointment of the silence, came as a fresh shock.
Then I perceived an unaccountable change in my bodily sensations.
Then began a vast throbbing hum, that mingled with the music.
We were returning to the bungalow for tea, and on the way he fell humming.
I told him of companies and patents, and the case for secret processes.
As we ran along it our way was lit by the irradiation of Cavor's legs.
That brought me out of the infinite to my own proper dimensions again.
The mere touch of my hand against the glass moved me rapidly.
We listened and peered about us, but the darkness was a velvet pall.
And while he was having his bath I considered the entire question alone.
"This must be the shaft we looked down upon," said Cavor.
"Eh?" The full meaning of what we were saying struck me sharply.
What on earth were we going to do now? We were cornered in a sort of way already.
I understood him to say that it wasn't an explosion at all.
Only, as I say, I'm apt to overlook these little things.
With each, the cave opened out and the number of Selenites visible increased.
I whipped the chain off his feet, and put it in his hand.
Now, from the work-shed to the patent office is clearly only one step.
I turned, and they were all coming towards us in open order waving their axes.
In a little time it was nearly as strong as the phosphorescence on Cavor's legs.
"By the way," I said, "where exactly is the sphere?" Cavor looked at me.
"Don't forget the goad!" He walked a little in front of me for a time.
Christopher broke from her grasp and scrambled toward the light.
Cindi was worried now and beginning to be more scared.
Why had I come to the earth? Why had I a private life at all? ...
I came to an insurmountable barrier, an obstinate blank.
Then it occurred to me that it was time to go out and signal for Cavor.
But I did not go out and signal for Cavor forthwith.
But I can't make it clear to you now - it's impossible.
You've made all that impossible! " I suggested he might try some other direction.
Then suddenly I saw something that struck me even then.
He was without the helmet and body covering they wear upon the exterior.
Chapter 9 Prospecting Begins WE ceased to gaze.
"Do they want us to imitate those sounds? " I asked Cavor.
There was the gold in the coffee-room - my only possession on earth.
Really you conducted researches because you had to.
An extraordinary elation had taken possession of us.
I perceived something that set my hopes leaping and bounding.
The confounded stuff certainly looked of a biteable texture.
"Where is your palace and my daughter?" demanded the Sultan.
"I watched him attentively for a time, and then glanced at the alert Phi-oo.
It's clear the thing must be more to the eastward, much more.
"They are reasonable creatures - they can make things and do things.
"Cannot we show him we are interested in the machine? " I said.
Cavor was crawling in front at the time, and he first was aware of their proximity.
Certainly if any one wants solitude, the place is Lympne.
that drank in the heat and light pouring in a cascade from the newly-risen sun.
It is the briefest fragment, the broken beginnings of two sentences.
I can't profess to explain the things that happened in my mind.
For my own part it seems to me we might make it edgeways, perhaps, and very thin.
I made an estimate of the little man's appearance as he drew nearer.
Far below was a bluish glow, a sort of blue mist - at an infinite distance below.
"Help!" said the young man: "rather!" He became vaguely active.
"Cavor," I said, "cannot we have some light?" There came no answer.
This astonished the Grand Lunar very much, when it was made clear to him.
And that prepared, I could turn on Cavor for his explanation.
We never succeeded in getting a response back to Cavor.
It lay there as we had left it when we had dropped out amidst the snow.
Our little stream of light ran in a dwindling thread and vanished far ahead.
I seemed to advance continually to something larger, dimmer, and less material.
And directly you take them it knocks you to pieces in some unexpected way.
But this peaceful revolution of hope cannot become the prey of hostile powers.
The crowd seemed to open and close and flow like water.
The lawyers have danced since earlier this morning.
The musicians have urged David to surf since early last month.
That doctor is not advising David to jog near the station.
Five weeks ago I was still ordering Amanda to jump.
Erika wasn't at the barbershop because Deborah's son had jogged for a few hours.
Mike wasn't in the classroom because Pete had surfed for three days.
Andy didn't train Buddy to play below the bridge.
That police officer envied him his good fortune.
I had been talking but I was praying.
Eleanor didn't surf because Debbie had laughed.
Luke didn't talk because Rebecca had walked.
Those science teachers promise her a delicious dinner.
That police officer is not training Betty Sue to talk.
Do those taxi drivers forbid Suzanne to walk well?
Doesn't Mike often encourage Judith to cook?
He collapsed - he crushed and crumpled - his head smashed like an egg.
I stopped and looked back, and I heard the pad, pad of Cavor's feet receding.
He answered nothing, buzzing to himself softly, as he pursued his thoughts.
There came a still more violent whirl of the sphere and we had clutched one another.
I paced the room, gesticulating like a boy of twenty.
And this apartment and the glimpses we had of its guardian.
That outlook on the marsh was, indeed, one of the finest views I have ever seen.
" He was seated in what was relatively a blaze of incandescent blue.
It is only afterwards he begins to appreciate his specific injury.
I reckoned we should presently come right among them.
I'm a rag." "Come up to the hotel," said the foremost little man.
It came as a joyous daybreak to end the long night of captivity.
"I am now able to come and go as I please, or I am restricted only for my own good.
Unfortunately that's over - you can't get things back as they were.
Nineteen sixty-three is not an end, but a beginning.
Christopher! Christopher! But only the cedars answered her.
.to assist free men and free governments in casting off the chains of poverty.
Whatever it was, it was a thing with mechanical possibilities.
We might have been in a sphere of steel for all that we could see.
'Tell me more,' said the Grand Lunar; 'make me see pictures.
The back of my right hand had suffered most, and was skinless and raw.
"Too late!" screamed despair; "lie down!" I fought stiffly with it.
Even with those shooting things they might make it bad for us....
At first we forced our appetites, but afterwards we fasted completely.
Now! But the clouds had darkened the moon and she wasn't sure of the way.
The princess showed him the hall, and asked him what he thought of it.
At first they seemed big white cylinders of vague import.
It seemed to me that by this time he ought to be looking for me.
Those Selenites down the cleft had certainly some infernally long spears.
" Only this shows you how useless knowledge is unless you apply it.
I was incredulous that any living thing could be so flimsy.
From that to a definite course of rational worldly action was plain sailing.
I knew quite clearly that all that was needed was an explanation.
But I had done with care and anxiety, hunger or fear, for that space.
Aladdin had won the hearts of the people by his gentle bearing.
If I had not been so horribly fagged I could have laughed at them.
"Eh?" I tried to shout, but could not do so for want of breath.
They breathed noisily at my doing so, but did not wake.
For Cavor that was a time of intense exertion; for me it was an anxious inactivity.
But that matter we compromised after two days' delay.
I hit straight out at the face of the thing with the goad.
A few fell off the ceiling and clinked on the frozen floor.
She jumped from her bunk and ran to the living room barefoot.
.and the glow from that fire can truly light the world.
"The caverns and passages are naturally very tortuous.
It was a tiny snowflake, the first snowflake, the herald of the night.
"I am only a humble servant of the Count," he said..
Of course, it was quite clear to me what had happened to the boy.
North, south, east, and west spread an identical monotony of unfamiliar forms.
I wonder if they know this is simply blackness for us.
He was carried before the Sultan, who ordered the executioner to cut off his head.
As yet I was too amazed to realise how all my expectations had been upset.
They took their drinks to the nearby cemetery for a midnight stroll.
On the moon they rest only at rare intervals, and after exceptional exertions.
At last they came to two mountains divided by a narrow valley.
And then, perhaps, I would catch on again for a bit.
At the heart of the thicket I stopped, and stared panting into Cavor's face.
Walk on till you come to niche in a terrace where stands a lighted lamp.
For a long time we lay panting, not daring to approach the pit.
"But where did you get that?" I was too tired to keep up a lie.
He waved his hand vaguely skyward, the vague suggestion of still vaguer thoughts.
"No! it wouldn't." He thought, his hands hanging over his knees.
The picture was clear and vivid only in the middle of the field.
"If we endure what they do to us" "We've got to endure it," said I.
For now we had come to the real danger of our journey.
.but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle.
Mean - unlimited! Practically." Certainly I was intoxicated.
I walked close beside it, and I can testify it radiated not a particle of heat.
Ever and again some novel shape in vivid colour obtruded.
Jordan entered midway through the first quarter and tied it with a 15-foot jumper.
But at that time I could think of nothing but death.
And how the devil am I going to all this stuff to Lympne?" I wondered where I was.
Most men want - well, various things, but very few want knowledge for its own sake.
"What can it be for?" Cavor's blue-lit face was full of an intelligent respect.
I felt I must act instantly if I was to save Cavor.
"We're going to see." "Are we?" I said, and stared before me.
For a time we crawled resolutely, then with diminishing vigour.
As it was very dirty, she began to rub it, that it might fetch a higher price.
He is forever speaking ill of you, but I only reply by my tears.
"It's too late for us to quarrel now, Bedford," he said.
I looked through the glass at the moon world and shivered.
We observe today not a victory of party but a celebration of freedom.
He extended a muddy lump of hand, and staggered a pace towards me.
"No!" "What has happened?" I asked after a pause.
"And for all sorts of work you have the same sort of men.
He gesticulated with his hands and arms, and jerked his head about and buzzed.
A queer sort of soil!" It occurred to him that it was unnecessary to explain.
She always slept on the top because Christopher was too little.
He stopped dead, arresting me with a single gesture.
It ceased to be parallel-sided; it developed a deep indentation on one side.
"Cavor!" I bawled, and the sound was like some manikin shouting far away.
"What do you think has become of the sphere, anyhow? " I asked.
He stopped and looked at her sharply, then broke into a grin.
We made a bolt for the unlit side cavern forthwith.
I accepted readily, and took care, by a remark or so, to underline that.
He recommended a nip of brandy, and set me the example, and presently I felt better.
He talked like a man long pent up, who has had it over with himself again and again.
I set myself to puzzle out the conditions under which I must fall to earth.
From that joint my memory of the action of that abominable fungus becomes confused.
I do not remember before that night thinking at all of the risks we were running.
That guard is reminding Deborah's son to eat.
Mrs. O'Day wasn't at the bank because Joe's girlfriend had driven for ten minutes.
Bill's wife wasn't between the two mountains because Jimmy Joe had run for ten minutes.
Those librarians are asking Peter to work near my home today.
The police officer doesn't expect Tony to read at the bookstore.
She has urged Joe to ski since several months ago.
It might not be interesting to walk early next month.
It will be expensive to fight behind the post office next spring.
The carpenters weren't persuading Charlie to run under the bridge.
The science teachers weren't swimming earlier this morning.
The computer programmers were playing late yesterday afternoon.
Wasn't Margaret sleeping next to the police station?
I wasn't working at the drugstore.