Pythoñol, and PyBabelPhish are distributed free-of-charge, as open source under the terms of the Free Education Initiative License.

Pythoñol's features:  Text-to-speech capabilities, verb conjugation of 28 verb tenses (with translation), English-Spanish dictionary, English and Spanish thesauri, full-text translation, thousands of searchable idioms, a verb browser, and an extensive grammar reference section.

Pythoñol is a Gtk-based, Linux application written in 100% Python and does NOT require Gnome.  It's even somewhat cross-platform.  Pythoñol is my attempt to make a free, much-needed, all-in-one Spanish-English language educational software package for Linux.  I created it, initially, for my personal use after becoming frustrated and disenchanted with a number of unstable, incomplete, and often, abandoned, Spanish language programs for Linux.  Over time, I started adding features that would not only be useful to myself, but others wishing to further their knowledge of Spanish as well.  

Pythoñol is intended to provide at least SOME benefit to people of all ages and skill levels.  The use of the 'Child-Friendly' version of Pythoñol is strongly advised for users under the age of 18 or anyone else who may be sensitive to offensive content in the Pythoñol knowledge databases within the application.  'Child-Friendly' versions of Pythoñol can be obtained at: http://pythonol.sourceforge.net .  In addition, see  'Making Pythoñol Child-Friendly' on the 'Help' menu for a quick, painless way to make Pythoñol safe and friendly for minors and other sensitive users.  Of course, truly concerned parents should monitor their child's use of Pythoñol.  

If you are a teacher or instructor using this software for your students, I would LOVE to hear from you.  If you are using Pythoñol to teach students, please email me and let me know.  I would be very pleased to know if some student somewhere is benefitting from Pythoñol.  Suggestions, comments, and corrections are always welcome, especially from Spanish teachers/instructors and other linguistics experts.

NOTE: Pythoñol is a LINUX application.  It was initially designed for Linux and will always be a Linux/Unix application FIRST.  However, a ported version of Pythoñol has been created for Windows.  Nevertheless, Windows users should NOT expect the same stability as the Linux version, and some features are missing in the Windows version (most notably, printing.)    Quite frankly, it's unlikely that I will put the same effort into the Windows version as I do the Linux version.  I don't really use Windows anymore (I emancipated myself from MicroSlave Windows a long time ago.)  and there is enough software for Windows, provided you're willing to borrow out of your life insurance to be able to purchase it.  Somebody I care about asked me for a Windows version, so I made one.  However, Pythoñol for Windows has NOT been as extensively tested as Pythoñol for Linux.  So, Windows users: Please do not expect complete perfection and stability, as Gtk is made for Linux/Unix, not Windoze.