[PHTITLE]RECIPROCAL VS. REFLEXIVE PRONOUNS

[PH-HI]Reflexive pronouns include such things as 'yourself', 'ourselves', and 'themselves'.  Reciprocal pronouns include such things a 'each other'.[/PH-HI]

The plural direct and indirect object pronouns 'nos', 'os', and 'se' can of course be used reflexively to mean ourselves, yourselves,  and themselves. In this case the person doing the action and the recipient of the action are the same. The person is doing something to his or herself. These same plural forms may also be used to express reciprocal actions, expressing the idea of (to/with/for/etc.) each other or one another. Thus the expression 'nos miramos' can mean both 'we see ourselves' (for example, two of us are looking in the mirror and each of us sees both of us) or it can mean 'we see each other' (we pass each other on the street and each one sees the other one). To distinguish between reflexive and   reciprocal actions, clarifying prepositional phrases are often added: 
 
[PH-HI]The usual clarifying prepositional phrases for reflexives (ourselves, themselves, yourself, etc), are: [/PH-HI]
 
nos + a nosotros(-as) mismos(-as):  (to) ourselves
os + a vosotros(-as) mismos(-as):  (to) yourselves (Spain, plural of tú)
se + a sí mismos(-as):  (to) themselves, (to) you

Examples:
Nos queremos a nosotros mismos.:  We love ourselves.
Las chicas se cayeron y se hicieron daño a si mismas.:  The girls fell down and hurt themselves.


[PH-HI]For reciprocals ('each other'), you may use as a clarifier 'mutuamente' or one of the following: [/PH-HI]
 
(el) uno a(l) otro:  (to) each other (two persons, male or one male and one female)
(la) una a la otra:  (to) each other (two persons, both female)
(los) unos a (los) otros:  (to) each other (more than two persons male or all male or male and female)
(las) unas a (las) otras:  (to) each other (more than two persons, all female)

Note: The definite article is optional. The preposition 'a' is used in these samples, but is often replaced by other prepositions depending on individual sentence; see the use of 'con' below. 

Examples:
Ella y yo nos queremos el uno al otro.:  She and I love each other.
Ellas se enojaron y se hicieron daño unas a otras.:  The girls got angry and hurt each other.
Carmen y los chicos charlaban unos con los otros.: Carmen and the boys were chatting with one another.